Page 1 of 44
COMP/SOFT4902/4912
Graduation Design Project
Project Title
SkyPort: Geographic Simulation for Urban Air Mobility
Yağmur BAŞOĞLU / 21COMP1016, Nehir KARAMEŞE / 22COMP1041
REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS DOCUMENT
1. Introduction
This document has been prepared to present the requirements analysis and technical framework of
the SkyPort project. This project offers an innovative solution in the field of urban air mobility. SkyPort
is a Geographic Decision Support System (GDSS) model that digitizes manual site selection processes
through open-source spatial data and advanced decision-making algorithms. By integrating live opensource spatial data with sophisticated Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) algorithms over a
discrete hexagonal spatial grid, the system delivers mathematically optimized infrastructural insights.
With this system is its dual-actor architecture, analysts and passengers no longer operate in separate
silos. They share a common platform where infrastructure decisions and travel planning feed into each
other.
Throughout the document, the system's core functions, operational limitations, engineering success
criteria, and the project's academic objectives are discussed. It is intended to be used as a reference
document during the design and implementation phases for all modules in the development process.
1.1. Purpose of the System
The main objective of this project is to design and develop a web-based Geographic Decision
Support System (GDSS) leveraging open-source geographic data to identify the optimal location for
the establishment of the Vertiport, considering the Urban Air Mobility (UAM) scope in Istanbul, and
then to establish a web-based bidirectional system to enable the use of the network for the end-users.
Page 2 of 44
The system also has the ability to analyse multiple criteria such as height (obstacles), transport
networks, land use, meteorological conditions, traffic density, socioeconomic factors, and restricted
flight zones. With the Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) algorithm to be developed, it is
possible to automatically calculate the "Vertiport Suitability Score" for coordinates that can be set by
the user depending on their needs. In such a manner, it is possible to provide a flexible decision support
tool for institutions, organizations, and individuals interested in investing in Vertiports. Additionally,
it is also possible to save the results obtained from previous analyses.
The end-user (B2C) module of the system directly provides passengers with access to the vertiport
network, which has been approved through analysis. Passengers can filter vertiports according to their
personal preferences (cost, distance, noise, etc.), select the most suitable point for their travel plans,
and add frequently used locations such as home/work to their favourites for a personalized experience.
In conclusion, unlike a standard navigation or map application, this system aims to be a systematic
engineering tool for visualizing manual feasibility processes with interactive heatmaps and simulated
safe flight routes, and also an end-to-end service portal for integrating passengers into the UAM
ecosystem.
1.2. Scope of the System
SkyPort is a two-way (B2B and B2C) interactive platform that helps users plan and experience
Urban Air Mobility (UAM) infrastructure specifically in Istanbul. Using different geographic data
sources, the system provides data-driven decision support for vertiport site selection, while also making this validated network accessible to end-users.
The system offers the following core capabilities:
• Globally Scalable Software Architecture: A general analysis platform using Istanbul as a
pilot region but adaptable to any metropolis in terms of its data structure.
• Full-Stack Geographic Development: The design and implementation of a robust spatial
database (PostgreSQL/PostGIS), a Python-based algorithmic data processing layer, and a
React/Mapbox-based interactive graphical user interface.
• Safe Route Analysis: Developing a basic routing algorithm that avoids obstacles between
selected stations.
• Data-Driven Location Analysis: By utilizing spatial indexing (such as the H3 Hexagonal Grid
system), this involves the integrated analysis of building height (obstacles), transportation
infrastructure, traffic density, and socioeconomic factors, which can be obtained from
OpenStreetMap and other open data sources.
• Dynamic Criterion Weighting (MCDM): This enables the user to set their own parameters
for the Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM – AHP/TOPSIS) algorithm, which will be
integrated into the decision support system.
Page 3 of 44
• Visualization and Simulation: Providing visualization of analysis results through an
interactive heatmap on a Mapbox-based map and simulating safe flight routes without obstacles
from one location to another.
• Analysis Management and Reporting (B2B): Providing experts with an ability to compare
various location alternatives based on their scores, view detailed results of each location analysis, save previous results of location analysis to experts’ profiles, and export results.
• End-User Interaction (B2C): Providing end users with an ability to view an approved network of vertiports, view results of filtering by their own preferences (cost, distance, noise
level, etc.), choose travel destinations, and save frequently visited locations to favourites
(Home, Work, etc.).
The system's core user roles are:
1. Expert User (Urban Planner/Aviation Investor-Analyst): User will carry out strategic
analysis by linking the provided Vertiport infrastructure to urban planning and will report the
results. The user will assess the operational safety and commercial potential of potential investment locations, identify the most suitable investment location, and use comparison tools.
2. Customer/Passenger: The customer will filter the provided vertiports according to their criteria using the system, select the points for boarding and disembarking for their personal use,
and manage their favourite points.
Out of Scope
To define the system's limitations, the following features have been excluded from the project scope:
• Real-time air traffic control, flight tracking, or handling of aircraft.
• Financial ticketing, payment infrastructures (payment gateways), or management of actual
commercial flight reservations (The Passengers will only plan their flight using the system
and select/filter the points; there is no financial ticketing for them to purchase a flight.)
• Physical hardware, sensor development, in-vehicle software integration.
• Real-time data analysis for cities other than Istanbul
1.3. Objectives and Success Criteria of the Project
The project's success criteria are as follows:
• The delivery of a fully functional web simulator, accessible via a standard web browser, for
personal computers, acting as a proof of concept for both professionals (B2B) and
passengers (B2C).
• The Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) algorithm developed must effectively
process physical barriers (mania), transportation integration, environmental, and
socioeconomic impact criteria to produce an understandable “Vertiport Suitability Score”
while ensuring expert users can effectively save the results of their analysis to their profiles
and export them in report form.
• Approved vertiport locations should be displayed perfectly on the customer/passenger interface, and it should be possible to filter these locations according to personal preferences
Page 4 of 44
(distance, costs, noise level, etc.), choose boarding and disembarking points, and mark frequently used locations as favourites.
• The proposed three-tier software architecture (React front-end, Python back-end,
PostgreSQL/PostGIS database) and actor-specific session management (login/logout)
infrastructure should be perfectly integrated, and the system should work without critical
errors.
• Suitability results should be displayed in an interactive heatmap format, and safe route
suggestions should also be provided to the user between the chosen optimum locations.
• Project should be completed in the proposed timeframe, and all proposed functional and
non-functional requirements should be met.
• The developed system should demonstrate environmental and social sensitivity in line with
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure)
and 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities)
1.4. Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
• SkyPort: Name of the proposed and developed bidirectional (B2B and B2C) Decision Support
System and vertiport network platform.
• RAD (Requirements Analysis Document): Document that describes the scope, goals, and
functional specifications of a proposed project.
• UAM (Urban Air Mobility): Technological environment that provides urban air mobility.
• eVTOL (Electric Vertical Take off and Landing): Next-generation aircraft that are electricpowered and allow vertical take off and landing.
• Vertiport: Locations where operational activities of eVTOLs take place, take off and landing
and charging of aircraft, and transferring of passengers.
• MCDM (Multi-Criteria Decision Making): Algorithmic structures that identify the most suitable
decision alternative based on various criteria (AHP and TOPSIS techniques) in decision-making
processes.
• Obstacles: Buildings, towers, and high-voltage lines that impact flight safety of aircraft.
• PostGIS: An extension of PostgreSQL that provides geographic/location-based (spatial) queries
in a database environment.
• NFZ (No Fly Zone): Locations where flight is prohibited.
• B2B (Business-to-Business): The platform's expert (management) module focused on analysis
and reporting, used by urban planners and aviation investors.
Page 5 of 44
• B2C (Business-to-Consumer): The platform's end-user module serving customers and
passengers directly, focusing on filtering, booking scheduling, and favourite management.
• User: any person who uses the system.
1.5. Overview
This Requirements Analysis Document (RAD) is structured to present the technical, architectural,
and functional details of the SkyPort bidirectional (B2B and B2C) Decision Support System and
platform, and consists of six main sections:
• Section 1 : Introduction: This section provides an overview of the major framework of this
project and includes a brief overview of the reasons for developing this system, the purpose
of this system, scope, success criteria, and major definitions.
• Section 2: Current System: This section is intended to analyse the current manual feasibility
studies or digital solutions available in the field of Urban Air Mobility (UAM), and it will be
made clear which issues are being addressed.
• Section 3: Proposed System: This is the major part of this document and includes an overview of functional requirements (Use Cases and Scenarios), non-functional quality attributes,
and system models that this system will provide to users, including professionals (B2B) and
passengers (B2C).
• Section 4: Other Analysis Elements: This section includes a detailed project plan, which
includes risks that can be encountered during this project process and possible alternatives.
• Section 5: Glossary: Provides comprehensive definitions necessary for the correct interpretation of technical terms, abbreviations, and field-specific concepts used in the document.
• Section 6: References: Lists all academic publications, technical documentation, and data
sources used in the requirements engineering and initial stages of the project.
2. Current System
Today, Urban Air Mobility (UAM) is a brand-new and developing industry, and therefore, there is
no standardized and publicly available integrated software for the selection of the vertiport and the
delivery of the network to the end user.
Currently, these studies are carried out by city planners and aviation companies. When carrying out
a study for a specific region to check the suitability for a UAM network, 3D data for buildings,
transportation network data, and zoning data need to be collected separately from different
organizations. Analysis is performed manually with a high margin of error, and the process takes
months. Currently available mapping tools, such as Google Maps, can only be used for navigation.
However, the current systems do not have the ability of a Geographic Decision Support System,
which can analyse building heights, land use types (noise sensitive areas), and transportation networks
simultaneously. The absence of an academic and practical tool that can process complex spatial data
and display the results as a heat map simulation is the major weakness of the current system. From the
point of view of the users/passengers, the current UAM system does not have a digital platform for
passengers, potential customers, to plan their future eVTOL (air taxi) routes and filter and view
approved active vertiports according to their own preferences (cost, distance, noise).
The SkyPort system aims to eliminate these limitations. It offers a Geographic Decision Support
System that can perform spatial analysis quickly and systematically by automatically integrating
different sources of geographic data. The system uses multi-criteria analysis to evaluate the possible
locations for a Vertiport, which are then presented to the user as an interactive heat map. At the same
Page 6 of 44
time, the system also makes the network accessible to passengers and changes the existing manual
process to a digitized bidirectional process.
3. Proposed System
 This section presents how the SkyPort system works, the stakeholders of the system, the actors
involved, and the functional features of the system. The overall structure of the system is presented.
SkyPort is not just a Geographic Decision Support System (GDS) prototype to identify the most
suitable locations for eVTOL (electronic taxi) vertiports within a city. Instead, it is a web based
integrated system that allows the public to access the network directly. It is a bidirectional web based
integrated system (B2B, B2C) applicable to the city of Istanbul as a pilot city.
3.1. Overview
SkyPort is a bidirectional (B2B and B2C) web based integrated Geographic Decision Support
System (GDSS), designed to identify the best locations for vertiport infrastructure under the context
of Urban Air Mobility (UAM), and to make the network available to end users.
The SkyPort system is a comprehensive analysis platform that allows users to:
• Select and manage the urban areas to be analysed via the map interface;
• Real-time retrieval of building height (mania), transportation infrastructure, and land use data
from open data sources (OSM) and index them on an H3 hexagonal grid architecture,
• Dynamically perform vertiport suitability analysis and compare options using Multi-Criteria
Decision Making (MCDM/AHP/TOPSIS),
• Visualize analysis results in interactive heatmaps and save them as reports to expert profiles,
• Compare alternative Vertiport locations,
• Plan safe travel routes between potential Vertiport points and manage their favourite locations,
• Allow passengers to view the vertiport network approved by experts and filter according to
their personal priorities such as distance, cost or noise.
The SkyPort system includes various stakeholders and actors who interact with the system and
contribute to its development.
Actors:
1. Expert User (Urban Planner / Aviation Investor) - [B2B] This is the main actor for the
analysis, calculation, and management (B2B) part of the system. This actor will choose regions on
the map, set the weight parameters for the Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) algorithm
according to their strategic or commercial goals. This actor will evaluate the suitability analysis
results provided by the system.
2. Passenger - [B2C] This is the actor for the customer portal (B2C) side of the system. This actor
does not interact with the analysis algorithm. Instead, they will look at the active vertiport network
Page 7 of 44
that has been analysed and approved by the Expert User on the map. This actor will filter the
vertiport based on their travel preferences. This actor will choose the boarding/disembarking points
for the vertiport. This actor will add the routes to the favourite list.
Stakeholders:
1. Civil Aviation Authorities (e.g., DGCA): Urban Air Mobility System needs to adhere to the civil
aviation regulations and airspace regulations (No Fly Zone - NFZ). Though they are not using the
system as a user through the interface, they are the most important stakeholders since the analysis
and simulation carried out by the system have to adhere to their safety regulations.
2. External Data Providers (e.g., OpenStreetMap): The Urban Air Mobility System needs
accurate geographical information to perform the analysis. Open-Source Platforms such as
OpenStreetMap are external stakeholders who provide the necessary data such as building heights
(obstacles), transportation network data, etc. This data is fed into the system in the background.
3. Software Development Team: This team is responsible for the architectural design of the
SkyPort System, coding the MCDM Algorithm, PostGIS Database Management, etc. This team
ensures the sustainability of the project from a PoC (proof of concept) to a product.
The addition of all the stakeholders and actors to the system allows the Urban Air Mobility System
to perform the functions of a data-driven decision support system.
3.2. Requirements
This section highlights the basic functions that are expected from the SkyPort system. The
requirements established are the processes through which the system processes the geographical
information received from the user, transforming the information into a more useful output, which can
either be a map or a vertiport availability score. The processes established are used to create a strategic
decision support tool for B2B professionals, while for B2C travellers, the processes are used to create
a travel guide, thereby highlighting the two-way value proposition of the system. The functions
established by the system, as well as the interaction with the user, are highlighted in the "Use Cases"
section below.
3.2.1. Use Cases
SHARED USAGE SITUATIONS (B2B & B2C)
UC1: Creating an Account: Priority: High
Users who want to log in for the first time create an account by choosing the type of account that
they want to use the system with their own profile. Once the user enters their email and password,
the system checks the user’s information and creates a new user profile in the system database. The
user can then log in to the dashboard according to their type.
UC2: Login: Priority: High
Registered users who want to log in to the system and use their past analytics or their favourite
locations log in by entering their email and password. The system checks the user’s information from
the database and loads the interface according to their type.
UC3: Simulate Flight Route: Priority: Medium
User being a feasibility testing expert or a passenger planning a trip, selects the departure point and
arrival point on the map for the flight route between these two points. The user then requests the
system to simulate the safest flight route between these two points. The system then searches for any
Page 8 of 44
physical barriers between these points. It also requests the wind speed from the external weather API
and compares it with safety limits. If all the requirements are met, the system utilizes pathfinding
algorithms to simulate the safest flight route between these points on the map without any chance of
a collision. If the requirements are not met, the system does not allow the user to simulate the flight
route and send a cancellation warning message.
EXPERT USER (B2B) SITUATIONS
UC4: Select Analysis Region: Priority: High
Expert user (city planner or investor) selects the target region they wish to analyse in Istanbul by using the
integrated Mapbox map interface. This selection may be done by drawing a bounding box on the map or by
centring a specific coordinate point on a radius basis. Once the user has selected the region, the system will
sequentially carry out the following complex operations:
Firstly, the system will retrieve building (obstacle), transportation, and land data for the selected region from
the OpenStreetMap (OSM) data repository or PostGIS spatial database. Then, the selected region will be
divided into cells by using the Uber H3 Hexagonal Grid data structure. At the same time, the Multi-Criteria
Decision Making (MCDM - AHP/TOPSIS) mathematical model algorithm will be executed by the system to
calculate a suitability score between 0 and 100 for each cell. Next, the results will be visualized on the map by
creating a heatmap in green for high suitability scores or in red for low suitability or risky areas.
UC5: Adjust Criteria Weights: Priority: High
The decision-making expert can change the levels of importance for different analysis criteria, such
as accessibility, noise sensitivity, and restrictions in terms of obstructions, through the control panel
on the system interface, based on their strategy. Once the expert saves these parameters, the system
checks if their sum is exactly 100%, sends these parameters to the system algorithm, and then
instantly calculates the results again, presenting them on the screen in the form of a heat map.
UC6: Inspect Cell Details: Priority: Medium
Expert users can click on any hexagonal cell on the screen, where they will be able to see detailed
results of the analysis for that specific cell on the screen. The system will present these results in the
detail panel in terms of what constitutes the final suitability score for a given cell on the screen, for
example, the impact of obstructions, transportation, and environmental factors on the cell's suitability
score.
UC7: Compare Candidate Locations: Priority: Medium
Expert user can compare several Vertiport candidate locations that have high suitability scores, as
indicated by the system. The system allows the expert user to view the suitability scores and criterion
contributions of the selected locations side by side, which makes it easy for them to compare them
and establish which one is suitable.
UC8: Save Analysis to Profile: Priority: Low
Expert users save a heat map analysis that they have successfully completed in their profile for later
viewing or future work. The system saves the current view of the map, coordinates, and criterion
weights used for the analysis to the "Past Analyses" tab of the expert user's database.
UC9: Export Analysis Report Priority: Medium
Expert user requests that the system download the generated suitability map and location information
for them to their computer for later use in meetings or presentations internally. The system renders
the current view of the map and score information in GeoJSON data format or PDF report format,
then allows the expert user to download it.
PASSENGER / CUSTOMER (B2C) SITUATIONS
Page 9 of 44
UC10: View Active Vertiports: Priority: High
Passenger (end-user) views the available vertiport network on the map that has already been
previously analysed and approved by experts and added to the system. The system displays the
approved (active) vertiport coordinates from the database on the map layer as a marker (pin) that
represents the point where the passenger can receive the service.
UC11: Filter Vertiport Network: Priority: High
The passenger further refines his choices by filtering the active vertiports shown on the map based on
his personal needs (e.g., closest distance, most cost-effective location, least noise level, etc.). The
system compares the input data from the passenger through the interface with the vertiport data from
the database and immediately hides the markers that do not match the criteria from the map layer.
UC12: Manage Favourite Locations: Priority: Low
The passenger adds, updates, or deletes his frequently visited locations like home or work, or
personal points at vertiports from his "Favourites" list. The system marks these user-selected points
in the database and highlights them on the map by a special icon (star) the next time the user opens
the map.
3.2.2. Scenarios
UC1-Description:
Table 1
Overview
Scenario Title Create Account
Description This is the process by which a user (expert or passenger) who is logging in to the system for the first
time registers by choosing an account type in order to use the system with their own profile.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B), Passenger (B2C)
Interfaces: Registration Form Interface (Frontend), Authentication Service (Auth API / Database)
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The user should have access to the application's "Register" page.
The email address that the user submits in the form should not be previously registered in the system.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user selects the type of account, either Expert/B2' or Passenger/B2C.
Step 2: The user enters the first name, last name, email address, and password, and clicks the Register button.
Step 3: The system checks the format of the entered values (email format, password strength).
Step 4: The system checks whether the email address is unique in the database.
Step 5: The system adds a new user by storing the user's information and the type of user account selected in the database.
Step 6: The system shows a confirmation message on the screen, and the user is redirected to the dashboard according to the user type.
Post Condition
A new user is successfully registered, and the user's session (login status) is activated.
Alternative Flow(s)
1a. Registered Email Error Flow
UC2-Description:
Table 2
Overview
Scenario Title Login
Description This is the procedure by which a registered user (expert or passenger) uses their email address and
password to log into the system to access their past analytics or favourite locations.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B), Passenger (B2C)
Interfaces: Login Form Interface (Frontend), Authentication Service (Auth API/Database)
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The user needs to have access to the application "Log In" page.
The user needs to have a previously created active account in the system.
Page 10 of 44
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user submits the form by entering the email address and password.
Step 2: The user clicks the "Log In" button.
Step 3: The system verifies the provided information (email address and password) by accessing the database.
Step 4: The system identifies the verified user type (B2B or B2C) and establishes a session (session/token).
Step 5: The system redirects the user to the main interface (control panel) according to the authorized user type.
Post Condition
The user is now logged in to the system and can access the interface according to their permissions.
Alternative Flow(s)
2a. Incorrect Credential Flow
UC3-Description:
Table 3
Overview
Scenario Title Simulate Flight Route
Description This is the process where the user chooses their departure and arrival points on the map, then asks the
system to plot and analyse the safest route for a flight between these two points.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B), Passenger (B2C)
Interfaces: Map Interface (Mapbox), Route Algorithm Engine (Python), External Weather API,
Pathfinding Algorithm (Python)
Initial Status and
Preconditions
User must be logged in and have access to Map Interface.
At least two approved/candidate vertiport points must be present on the map.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user chooses one of the Vertiport locations provided by the system on the map as their "Departure" and the other as their
"Arrival."
Step 2: The system queries the PostGIS database for spatial data on building heights, no-fly zones, etc., between these two points.
Step 3: The system queries the external meteorological API for real-time weather and wind speed at these coordinates.
Step 4: The pathfinding algorithm calculates the shortest route that avoids no-fly zones and other obstacles such as skyscrapers, etc.
Step 5: The system displays a linear route on the map, calculated by the pathfinding algorithm, as a safe route for a flight.
Post Condition
A flight route conforming to safety standards was successfully established between the two points, and flight metrics were presented to
the user.
Alternative Flow(s)
3a. The system will show a warning if a safe route cannot be established between the selected points due to the density of obstacles.
UC4-Description:
Table 4
Overview
Scenario Title Select Analysis Region
Description This is the process where an expert user selects an urban area of interest for which they would like to
carry out a feasibility study through the map interface, and the system extracts the geographic data for
that area, displaying the MCDM algorithm's suitability scores on the map. r.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B)
Interfaces: Map Interface (Mapbox), Data Extraction Service (OSM), MCDM Algorithm Engine
(Python), PostGIS Database
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The expert user (urban planner/investor) has logged into the system and accessed the map screen.
The Mapbox-based map interface should have been loaded successfully.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user opens the integrated map interface provided by Mapbox and activates the "Select Area" tool on the map.
Step 2: The user selects the area of interest that needs analysis by creating a bounding box or specifying a centre point and radius on
the integrated Mapbox map interface.
Step 3: The user clicks on the "Start Analysis / Confirm" button.
Step 4: The system checks if the coordinates of the selected area are within the boundaries of Istanbul.
Step 5: The system stores the area of interest that was selected by the user and prepares it for data retrieval.
Page 11 of 44
Step 6: The system retrieves the coordinates of the area of interest that was selected by the user, sends a request to OpenStreetMap
services, and retrieves building (obstacle), transportation, and terrain data for that area of interest.
Step 7: The system stores the data that was obtained in Step 6 into the PostGIS database for processing in the "Multi-Criteria Decision
Making" algorithm, notifies the user that data retrieval was successful, and is ready for the "Simulation" phase.
Step 8: The system divides the target region into thousands of discrete hexagonal cells using an Uber H3 Hexagonal Grid structure.
Step 9: Using the collected data, the system simultaneously runs the Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM - AHP/TOPSIS)
mathematical model and calculates a "Vertiport Suitability Score" between 0 and 100 for each cell.
Step 10: The system visualizes these calculated scores as an interactive heatmap on the map, using green for high suitability and red
for low suitability or risky areas.
Post Condition
Spatial data for the selected region has been successfully processed, and a heat map simulation has been generated on the screen. The
user is ready for a detailed examination.
Alternative Flow(s)
4a. Data Source Unavailable (API Error)
4b. Selected Region Too Large (Performance Limit)
4c. If the selected area is outside the Istanbul city limits, the system displays a warning message to the user and prompts them to select
a new area.
UC5-Description:
Table 5
Overview
Scenario Title Adjust Criteria Weights
Description This is the procedure by which the decision-making expert adjusts the levels of importance for the
analysis criteria (transportation, noise, obstacles, etc.) according to its own strategy, as well as the
results of the analysis.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert(B2B)
Interfaces: Criterion Control Panel (Sliders), MCDM Algorithm Engine
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The user must have successfully completed UC4 and a heatmap must have been generated on the
screen.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user invokes the "Set Criteria Weights" panel in the map interface.
Step 2: The system presents the user with the current criteria and their current weights in percentage form via sliders.
Step 3: The user changes the weights for analysis criteria such as accessibility, noise sensitivity, and obstruction restrictions via the
control panel in the system interface.
Step 4: The user clicks the "Save Values / Recalculate" button.
Step 5: The system checks whether the sum of the weights that were just input by the user is equal to 100%.
Step 6: The system sends the new parameters to the background decision engine for renormalization of the AHP matrices.
Step 7: The system updates the colour distribution in the heatmap in the map based on the newly calculated scores.
Post Condition
The analysis results have been successfully updated according to the strategic weights entered by the user.
Alternative Flow(s)
5a. If the sum of the criterion weights does not equal 100%, the system will show a warning.
UC6-Description:
Table 6
Overview
Scenario Title Inspect Cell Details
Description This is the process where an expert user chooses a particular cell of the heat map and analyses in detail
the criterion contributions that constitute the Vertiport suitability score calculated for that particular
location.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B)
Interfaces: Map Interface, Detail Analysis Panel
Page 12 of 44
Initial Status and
Preconditions
A calculated and visualized heat map is displayed on the screen.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user clicks on any hexagonal cell on the heat map that they want to look at in detail.
Step 2: The system will query the database for the data on the geographic data and calculated score breakdowns for the clicked cell.
Step 3: The system will bring up the "Cell Detail Panel" on the side or bottom of the screen.
Step 4: The system will display the calculated suitability score for the clicked cell, as well as the criteria that make up the suitability
score for the cell (mania effect, transportation integration, environmental factors, etc.) in the panel.
Post Condition
The user will have a clear understanding of the reasons for the suitability of a particular location.
Alternative Flow(s)
6a. If the detailed data for the clicked cell is not available in the database, the system will show an error message.
UC7-Description:
Table 7
Overview
Scenario Title Compare Candidate Locations
Description This is the process where an expert user selects multiple high-scoring vertiport candidate locations
suggested by the system and compares the metrics of these regions side-by-side.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B)
Interfaces: Map Interface, Comparison Mode (Dashboard)
Initial Status and
Preconditions
A successful heat map must be displayed on the screen and the user must select at least two different
candidate cells for comparison.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user selects at least two different candidate locations (cells) that have high suitability scores on the heat map.
Step 2: The user clicks on the "Compare Candidates" button in the tools panel.
Step 3: The system retrieves all the suitability scores and criterion contributions of these locations (cost, noise, etc.) from the database.
Step 4: The system opens a full-screen comparison window (modal) in the user interface.
Step 5: The system assists the user in making a decision by displaying the suitability scores and criterion contributions of these
locations side by side in a comparison table or graph.
Post Condition
A comparative analysis of the candidate locations that have been selected is displayed on the screen, aiding the decision-making
process
Alternative Flow(s)
7a: In case the user selects only one location, no comparison process will be initiated by the system.
UC8-Description:
Table 8
Overview
Scenario Title Save Analysis to Profile
Description This is the process by which an expert user saves a successfully completed heat map analysis to their
profile for later review or further work.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B)
Interfaces: Map Interface, Database Registration Service
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The user must be logged in and a successfully generated heat map analysis must be displayed on the
screen.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user clicks on the "Save Analysis" button on the system's interface.
Step 2: The user provides a name for the analysis (e.g., "Kadıköy 2026 UAM Plan") in the dialog box that appears and clicks on "OK."
Step 3: The system creates a data package containing the current map view, selected coordinate boundaries, and AHP criterion weights
used for the analysis.
Step 4: The system writes this data package into the user's "History" tab in the database in a secure manner.
Step 5: The system displays a message for the user saying "Analysis successfully saved to your profile."
Post Condition
Page 13 of 44
The analysis data has been securely saved to the user's profile and can be reloaded in subsequent sessions.
Alternative Flow(s)
8a. If the server or database connection is interrupted during the saving process, the system stops the process.
UC9-Description:
Table 9
Overview
Scenario Title Export Analysis Report
Description This is the process where an expert user downloads the suitability map and location metrics generated
by the system to their computer for presentation at internal meetings
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Expert (B2B)
Interfaces: Export API, Report Generator (Render Engine)
Initial Status and
Preconditions
A successfully calculated heat map and/or reviewed detail panels must be open on the screen.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user clicks on the "Export" button on the interface.
Step 2: The user selects the report format (Visual PDF Report or Data-based GeoJSON) from the menu that opens.
Step 3: The system will render the existing map image and scoreboards in the background in the chosen format.
Step 4: The system will generate a download link for the newly generated file and initiate a download to the user's device.
Step 5: The system will show a message saying "Report successfully exported" on the interface.
Post Condition
The analysis results are downloaded successfully to the user's device in a file format of their choice.
Alternative Flow(s)
9a. If the system times out while generating a very large map as a PDF, the process stops and a warning is given to the user.
UC10-Description:
Table 10
Overview
Scenario Title View Active Vertiports
Description This is the process by which the passenger (end user) views the available vertiport network, previously
analysed and approved by experts and added to the system, on a map.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Passenger (End User)
Interfaces: Customer Map Interface (Frontend), Database Query Service
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The passenger must be logged into the system with the "Customer" role.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user clicks the "Open Map" or "Show Active Points" button on the customer dashboard interface.
Step 2: The system queries the approved (status: active) vertiport coordinates and basic information (name, status) from the database.
Step 3: The system draws the coordinates as interactive markers on the passenger map layer.
Step 4: The user clicks on any marker on the map to view the name and general status of that vertiport.
Post Condition
The passenger has successfully viewed all active vertiport networks available for service on the map.
Alternative Flow(s)
10a. If there are no active vertiports yet confirmed in the database, the system opens the map blank and provides information.
UC11-Description:
Table 11
Overview
Page 14 of 44
Scenario Title Filter Vertiport Network
Description This is the process by which the passenger narrows down their options by filtering the active vertiports
listed on the map according to their personal needs (closest distance, cheapest location, lowest noise,
etc.).
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Passenger (B2C)
Interfaces: Filtering Menu, Map Interface
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The user must have completed the previous step, UC10, and the active vertiport pins must be shown on
the screen.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user opens the filtering menu on the interface and enters the preferred parameters (e.g., "Maximum 5km distance," "Low
Noise Area,").
Step 2: The user clicks the "Apply" button.
Step 3: The system compares the parameters entered by the user with the properties of the vertiports shown on the map, as indicated by
the JSON data.
Step 4: The system temporarily hides the vertiport markers that do not correspond to the user's requirements from the map.
Step 5: The system shows the number of filtered results ("3 vertiports found matching your criteria").
Post Condition
The map view has been updated to show vertiports that match the passenger's personal preferences.
Alternative Flow(s)
11a. If no vertiports remain that match the selected strict filters, the system hides all markers and issues a warning.
UC12-Description:
Table 12
Overview
Scenario Title Manage Favourite Locations
Description This is the process of adding, editing, or deleting frequently visited locations, such as home or work, or
preferred vertiport points, to a "Favourites" list specific to their profile.
Actors and Interfaces Actors: Passenger (B2C)
Interfaces: Map Interface, User Profile (Database)
Initial Status and
Preconditions
The user must be logged in with their own session (B2C), and a vertiport point on the map must be
selected.
Basic Flow
Step 1: The user clicks the "Add to Favourites" (Star) icon on the vertiport information card they clicked on the map.
Step 2: The system will match the ID of the selected vertiport with the current user profile in the database and write it into the
"Favourites" table.
The system will fill the "Star" icon on the interface, and the message "Added to Favourites" will be shown on the screen.
Step 4: On the next opening of the map, the system will highlight this favourite point with a special icon, different from the standard
markers.
Post Condition
The relevant location will be saved in the passenger's personal profile and will be included in a quick access list (favourites).
3.3. Nonfunctional Requirements
This section defines the non-functional constraints and quality attributes of the SkyPort Geographic
Decision Support System that determine the system's architecture, quality, and societal impact.
• Usability: The system needs to be able to convey complex geographical data (such as building
heights, transportation networks, terrain types) in an understandable way to urban planners and
aviation analysts. To achieve this, the "Vertiport Suitability Score" calculated by the system
will be presented to the user as a heatmap format via the user interface (using React and
Page 15 of 44
Mapbox). The "Vertiport Suitability Score" is not just a number; it also needs to be such that
when the user clicks on any cell on the heatmap, they can view the sub-components of the
suitability score (i.e., the reason for the suitability score). The passenger interface needs to be
such that a normal web user can plan their trip without any navigation assistance.
• Reliability: The system is dependent on the OpenStreetMap (OSM) data for map analysis. In
case there is a problem in the data provided by this external source for a region (e.g., the height
of the buildings is not provided for a region), the system must not crash; rather, it must display
a warning message for the user regarding the problem and must continue working in a "partially
reliable" mode based on the data that is available (e.g., transportation data and land use data).
In cases like the total weight exceeding 100% in the decision-making algorithm, the system
must display error messages for the user rather than crashing.
• Performance: The performance of the feasibility studies that might take months for urban
planners and aviation companies to do manually can be improved by the system's design as a
"Geographic Decision Support System." The performance of the spatial queries executed by
PostgreSQL/PostGIS and the Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) algorithm in the
Python backend should be able to perform the required calculations and create a heat map for
a standard-sized district or neighbourhood selected by the user in a matter of minutes. The
focus here is the efficient execution of complex geographic queries by PostGIS rather than the
results being returned in milliseconds. The performance in terms of panning and zooming the
map should be smooth and should not cause the user to experience lag.
• Supportability: The parameters of the Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) algorithm
used in this project (e.g., proximity to the metro = 40%, noise sensitivity = 30%) should not be
hardcoded into the code. This is because this is an academic and experimental project, and
these parameters should be easily changed in the background depending on various scenarios
of Urban Air Mobility (UAM).
• Implementation: The project must be developed according to a strict three-tier software
architecture. Instead of standard relational databases, PostgreSQL/PostGIS, capable of
processing spatial data, will be used in the database layer. The backend will be written in
Python, and the frontend in React.js. As per course guidelines, ready-made web templates will
not be used for frontend development; custom components will be coded.
• Interface : The system must integrate with external web services to programmatically collect
and visualize data. The backend will establish API integration with OpenStreetMap services
Page 16 of 44
(e.g., OSMnx) to pull real-world geographic data. The frontend will use the Mapbox Web
Services API to process and visualize the generated geographic results (GeoJSON, etc.). The
system will not open a commercial API to the outside world but will heavily utilize external
data providers. Management of expert and passenger profiles will be provided through a secure
login (Authentication) service.
• Packaging: The final packaging and delivery of the project should be at the end of the
semester. The project is a type of academic research prototype (Proof of Concept), and the final
product should be a fully functional web simulator that can be executed in a standard web
browser and a local or cloud-based server. The source code for the product should be submitted
in its entirety to the academic evaluation committee.
• Legal : The source of all the raw geographic data used in the project will be OpenStreetMap.
Hence, the system must follow the Open Database License requirements of OpenStreetMap.
Legal attributions that indicate that the data used by the application is owned by
OpenStreetMap and Mapbox must be clearly indicated on the user interface (the map).
• Other Constraints (Social, Ethical, Environmental and Business Impacts):
o Sustainability: The algorithm for the project will be designed based on the United
Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (Goal 9-Infrastructure, Goal 11-Sustainable
Cities). Due to ethical and health considerations, the algorithm must consider the noise
pollution that flying taxis (eVTOL) generate. Land usage must be considered by the
algorithm, which must heavily penalize (i.e., assign a low score) the construction of a
Vertiport on residential areas like houses, hospitals, and schools, while rewarding those
on highways or business premises.
o Business and Employment Impact: The goal of SkyPort is not to eliminate human
jobs by automating existing manual processes for feasibility analysis but to provide an
up-to-date Decision Support Tool for urban planners and aviation experts to take better
decisions. The technology also enables the creation of new fields of expertise for the
UAM industry, such as Data-Driven Aviation Planning.
3.4. System Models
This section contains the analysis models of the SkyPort system. The functional structure of the
system is visualized with use case diagrams, the data and class structure with object models, and the
interaction between components with dynamic models. Additionally, mock-ups showing end-user
interaction are presented.
Page 17 of 44
3.4.1. Use Case Model
Figure 1
Page 18 of 44
3.4.2. Object Model
Figure 2
3.4.3. Dynamic Model
Figure 3: Scenario 1
Page 19 of 44
Figure 4: Scenario 2
Figure 5: Scenario 3
Page 20 of 44
Figure 6: Scenario 4
Figure 7: Scenario 5
Page 21 of 44
Figure 8: Scenario 6
Figure 9: Scenario 7
Page 22 of 44
Figure 10: Scenario 8
Figure 11: Scenario 9
Page 23 of 44
Figure 12: Scenario 10
Figure 13: Scenario 11
Page 24 of 44
Figure 14: Scenario 12
3.4.4. User Interface—Navigational Paths and Screen Mock-ups
Figure 15
Page 25 of 44
Figure 16
Figure 17
Page 26 of 44
Figure 18
Figure 19
Page 27 of 44
Figure 20
Figure 21
Page 28 of 44
Figure 22
Figure 23
Page 29 of 44
Figure 24
Figure 25
Page 30 of 44
Figure 26
Figure 27
Page 31 of 44
Figure 28
Figure 29
Page 32 of 44
Figure 30
Figure 31
Page 33 of 44
Figure 32
Figure 33
Page 34 of 44
Figure 34
Figure 35
Page 35 of 44
Figure 36
Figure 37
Page 36 of 44
Figure 38
Figure 39
Page 37 of 44
4. Other Analysis Elements
This section includes some other analyses concerning the development process of the SkyPort
project. Risks that may occur during the project, as well as alternative solutions for these cases, are
discussed. Moreover, the project's development plan and basic stages are briefly presented.
4.1 Risks and Alternatives
This section concerns the potential risks that may occur during the development process of the
SkyPort project. More specifically, for each risk, the probability of the risk, the impact of the risk,
and the alternative plan for the project, in case the risk occurs, are presented as follows:
Table 13
Risks Likelihoo
d
Effect on the project B Plan Summary
Data Source
Limitations: Inability to
access data in the level of
detail required (e.g.,
building heights) through
OSM or open data
sources.
Medium
The accuracy and
coverage of the
decision-making
mechanism decrease
Default average values are
given to the missing layers. The
user is alerted to "missing data."
The analysis process proceeds
with partial reliability.
Alternatively, Overture Maps
API can be taken into account.
Complexity:
AHP/TOPSIS
mathematical models run
slowly when processing
thousands of H3 cells
(large datasets).
Low
System response time
is increased, along
with user interface
freezes (timeouts).
The H3 hexagonal grid
resolution level used by the
algorithm is reduced, or the
massive analysis areas are
divided into smaller
"neighbourhood" based
segments and processed
asynchronously.
3D Visualization
Challenges: Browser
(client) based
performance problems in
the simultaneous
rendering of building
heights and routes in
Mapbox GL JS.
Medium The quality of the
project is reduced.
The 3D layer is disabled, and
the 2D heat map is prioritized.
Scope Creep: Delays in
the development
schedule due to the
addition of features that
were not part of the
initial plan, like real-time
flight tracking, weather,
and payment gateways.
High
Project delivery
deadlines may be
delayed.
Other features include backlog,
which means the scope of the
current sprint is frozen, and
prioritizing core functionality.
PostGIS/Database
Performance: Query
performance for large
region queries becoming
too slow.
Medium
Analysis/data retrieval
time will be extended,
and there will be a
bottleneck risk.
Frequently used queries are
cached; the maximum zone size
for the analysis space is limited
if necessary.
Page 38 of 44
Export Errors: Errors
that occur in converting
complex map and
analysis reports to PDF
and GeoJSON formats.
Low
The reporting
capabilities of B2B
expert users will be
limited.
A server-side reporting engine
is used instead of browser-based
libraries, or simplified text
reports are provided.
Session and Data
Security: Problems with
database synchronization
of passenger (B2C)
favourites or expert
(B2B) analysis records.
Low User data loss will
occur, and reliability
will be impaired.
Standard and reliable
authentication libraries
(Firebase Auth, etc.) are used.
Automatic backup scenarios are
implemented to prevent data
loss.
4.2 Project Plan
This section covers the development schedule and management strategy for the SkyPort project
between February 2026 and June 2026. It is based on the technical requirements and key milestones
identified during the project analysis phase.
Table 14: List of Work Packages
WP# Work package title Members involved
WP1 Requirements Elicitation and Analysis Processes Yağmur Başoğlu,
Nehir Karameşe
WP2 High-Level System Design & Database Modelling Nehir Karameşe,
Yağmur Başoğlu
WP3 Spatial Database Setup (PostGIS) and Data
Extraction (OSMnx)
Yağmur Başoğlu
WP4 Frontend Framework Setup & Mapbox Base Layers Nehir Karameşe
WP5 MCDM Algorithm Implementation & Python
Backend Logic(Auth & Export)
Yağmur Başoğlu
WP6 Heatmap Visualization & B2B/B2C UI
Components
Nehir Karameşe
WP7 API Integration, System Testing & Documentation Yağmur Başoğlu,
Nehir Karameşe
Table 15: Work Package 1
WP 1: Requirements Elicitation and Analysis Processes
Start date: 02.03.2026 End date: 13.03.2026
Leader: Nehir Karameşe Members involved: Yağmur Başoğlu
Objectives: Before technical implementation of the project begins, the following steps are taken
researching the existing literature, analysing aviation and urban planning standards, analysing
Page 39 of 44
B2B/B2C user needs, and documenting all functional and technical requirements of the system.
Tasks:
Task 1.1 Literature Review: Researching the latest standards from EASA (European Union
Aviation Safety Agency) and other relevant entities regarding the selection of Vertiport location
and obstacles.
Task 1.2 Technical Analysis and Data Source Research : Analysing the technical capabilities
of the OpenStreetMap (OSM) data structure and the OSMnx library for Istanbul's 3D building
data and transportation networks.
Task 1.3 Requirements Definition (Functional & NFR): Detailed research regarding the
functions that the system should fulfil.
Task 1.4 Analysis Documentation : Combining the research with the technical analysis and
creating the Proposal and Requirements Analysis Document (RAD/RDD).
Deliverables
D1.1: Requirements Analysis Document (RAD/RDD)
Table 16: Work Package 2
WP 2: High-Level System Design & Database Modelling
Start date: 16.03.2026 End date: 27.03.2026
Leader: Yağmur Başoğlu Members involved: Nehir Karameşe
Objectives: To design the high-level software architecture of the SkyPort system, design the
PostGIS database schema used to store the spatial data (3D buildings, transportation networks,
etc.), design the database schema (ERD) used to store the user profiles (B2B/B2C) and their
favourites along with the spatial data, and define the interaction between the different
components of the SkyPort system.
Tasks:
Task 2.1 System Architecture Design: Designing the 3-tier architecture with the React UI,
Python-based backend with the choice of Flask or FastAPI, and the PostGIS database.
Task 2.2 Database Modelling (ERD): Designing the database schema that includes the spatial
data.
Task 2.3 User Flow Creation: Designing the B2B and B2C interface flow design (wireframes).
Task 2.3 Design Documentation: Documenting the design decisions and the architecture of the
SkyPort system as a System Design Document (SDD).
Deliverables
D2.1: System Design Document (SDD)
Table 17: Work Package 3
WP 3: Spatial Database Setup (PostGIS) and Data Extraction (OSMnx)
Start date: 01.04.2026 End date: 30.04.2026
Leader: Yağmur Başoğlu Members involved:
Objectives: The objectives of the task are to configure the spatial extension of the PostgreSQL
database using the PostGIS extension and develop Python/OSMnx scripts for extracting the
building height, transportation networks, and land use information for the Istanbul region using
the Open Street Map (OSM) data source.
Page 40 of 44
Tasks:
Task 3.1 Database Installation: The task is about installing the PostgreSQL database and the
PostGIS spatial extension, as well as the configuration of the spatial indexing settings (GIST).
Task 3.2 Data Extraction Scripts: The task is about developing the Python/OSMnx scripts for
extracting the building, road, and obstacle information for the Istanbul region.
Task 3.3 Data Cleaning and Transfer: Cleaning the extracted raw data, performing coordinate
system transformations, indexing to an H3 hexagonal grid structure, and transferring it to the
database.
Task 3.4 Data Validation: Validating the quality of the extracted data in the database and the
completeness of the attributes of the data, particularly the height attribute.
Deliverables
D3.1: Structured and Data-Polluted Spatial Database.
D3.2: Automatic Data Retrieval and Processing Module (Python Scripts).
Table 18: Work Package 4
WP 4: Frontend Framework Setup & Mapbox Base Layers
Start date: 01.04.2026 End date: 30.04.2026
Leader: Nehir Karameşe Members involved:
Objectives: The goal is to build the React.js framework, integrate the Mapbox GLJS map
engine into the system, and create a basic map interface (base maps, navigation tools) for users
to perform analysis.
Tasks:
Task 4.1 Frontend Setup: Creating the React.js project framework and configuring the
necessary libraries (Mapbox, Axios, MUI, etc.).
Task 4.2 Mapbox Integration: Defining the map API keys in the system and loading the base
layer focused on Istanbul.
Task 4.3 UI Component Design: Developing basic user interface controls such as zooming in,
zooming out, and displaying coordinates on the map.
Task 4.4 Area Selection Tools: Integrating the rectangular selection tool (Bounding Box) that
will allow the user to define the analysis area on the map.
Deliverables
D4.1: Working Web Interface Framework.
D4.2: Integrated Mapbox Map Module and Selection Tools.
Table 19: Work Package 5
WP 5: MCDM Algorithm Implementation & Python Backend Logic (Auth & Export)
Start date: 04.05.2026 End date: 22.05.2026
Leader: Yağmur Başoğlu Members involved:
Objectives: Code the Multi-Criteria Decision Making Algorithm develop a backend service
using a Python backend to process criterion weights according to a normalization procedure,
develop a simulation engine to compute fitness scores for all hexagonal cells in a hexagonal grid
system, develop user sessions management (Auth), and develop an export function to export
Page 41 of 44
results from analysis in a report format.
Tasks:
Task 5.1 Backend API Development : Setup a backend server using a Python backend server
and define API endpoints that will interact with the frontend.
Task 5.2 MCDM Algorithm Engine: Code the mathematical models for AHP (Analytic
Hierarchy Process) and TOPSIS using a Python backend server to validate the models.
Task 5.3 Database Integration: Code a database query layer to fetch geographic data required
by the algorithm from a PostGIS database.
Task 5.4 Scoring and GeoJSON Output: Developing the query layer that will retrieve the
geographic data required by the algorithm from the PostGIS database.
Task 5.5 Session management: Coding a module to manage user sessions (login and logout)
and user profile management.
Task 5.6 Export Output: Developing the report generation engine (GeoJSON/PDF Export).
Deliverables
D5.1: MCDM Algorithm Module (Python)
D5.2: Running Backend Simulation Service
Table 20: Work Package 6
WP 6: Heatmap Visualization & B2B/B2C UI Components
Start date: 04.05.2026 End date: 22.05.2026
Leader: Nehir Karameşe Members involved:
Objectives: Display the results obtained from the analysis by the MCDM algorithm on the map
as a dynamic heatmap on Mapbox, to add a set of control panels to allow the user to change the
weights of the criteria, and to implement the cell detail review screen and filtering/favourite
management for passengers.
Tasks:
Task 6.1 Heatmap Visualization : Adding calculated H3 score data in GeoJSON format to the
map as color-coded (legend-based) layers using Mapbox GL JS.
Task 6.2 Dynamic Control Panel: Developing "Slider" components by using React that allow
the user to adjust criterion weights in real-time.
Task 6.3 Detail Analysis Panel: Coding a side panel that opens when a cell is clicked and
showing the score breakdowns (obstacles, transportation, etc.) of that location.
Task 6.4 Comparison Module: Developing interface components that allow side-by-side
comparison of multiple candidate locations.
Task 6.5 Passenger Interface Panel: Implementation of passenger interface (B2C) filtering tools
and favourite location management panel.
Deliverables
D6.1: Interactive Heat Map Layer
D6.2: User Control and Analysis Panel
Page 42 of 44
Table 21: Work Package 7
WP 7: API Integration, System Testing & Documentation
Start date: 25.05.2026 End date: 12.06.2026
Leader: Yağmur Başoğlu Members involved: Nehir Karameşe
Objectives: To fully integrate the frontend and backend parts of the application with the API,
conduct comprehensive testing of the application's reliability, and prepare the final thesis
document for the project.
Tasks:
Task 7.1 System Integration: Ensuring communication between the React interface and Python
backend services via REST API and optimizing data flow.
Task 7.2 Tests : Performing unit and integration tests to debug and test software errors.
Task 7.3 Final Documentation and Thesis Writing: Preparing and submitting the final
Bachelor Thesis document by combining all development processes, architectural decisions, and
test results.
Deliverables
D7.1: Fully Integrated and Tested SkyPort GDSS Software.
D7.2: Final Bachelor Thesis & Poster Submission.
5. Glossary
Table 22: Glossary
AHP / TOPSIS These are the mathematical techniques used by the algorithms
of the Multi-Criteria Decision Making.
API (Application Programming
Interface)
An interface that allows the interaction of two or more software.
B2B (Business-to-Business) The part of the platform that deals with the analysis and management, specifically designed for experts (city planners, investors).
B2C (Business-to-Consumer) The part of the platform that deals with the analysis and management specifically designed for the end-user (passenger).
Bounding Box Rectangular boundaries defined by coordinates of the area to
be analysed or from which the data is going to be extracted on
the map.
eVTOL (Electric Vertical Takeoff and Landing)
Next-generation electric-powered aircraft capable of vertical
take-off and landing like helicopters (Flying taxis).
Export ( Downloading the analysis results and the map data that is
generated within the system to the user's device.
GeoJSON An open standard JSON data format used to encode geographic data structures.
GIS (Geographic Information
System)
An information system that allows the collection, storage,
analysis, and visualization of geographic data.
H3 / Hexagonal Grid A geographic indexing system that allows the analysis of an
area by dividing it into hexagonal cells. It is used in SkyPort
for cell-based scoring of data.
Page 43 of 44
Heatmap The method of showing data values on a map and using colours, where red means unsuitable and green means suitable.
Mania In aviation, any physical object that could compromise the
flight safety of an aircraft.
Mapbox A map-based visualization platform and API that enables the
development of web-based map-based applications.
MCDM (Multi-Criteria
Decision Making)
Multi-Criteria Decision Making, where multiple possibly conflicting, criteria are mathematically evaluated in order to
achieve an objective.
OpenStreetMap (OSM) An open-source geographic database created by volunteers
worldwide. It includes road networks, building data, and various spatial data.
PostGIS Software installed as an add-on to an open-source PostgreSQL database that allows the storage of Geographic Information System (GIS) objects.
Routing A safe and optimum flight path that is simulated between two
points, considering geographic constraints such as obstacles
and restricted flight zones.
Urban Air Mobility(UAM) This includes the transportation of passengers and/or cargo by
air in urban environments, and it is the main area of interest
of the SkyPort project.
Vertiport Specific stations designed for UAM, where eVTOLs drop off
and pick up passengers and are recharged.
6. References
Following list of references are relevant to this document, and they outline the technical, academic,
and regulatory sources utilized while initiating the SkyPort project idea, analysing, and modelling its
requirements.
1) Boeing, G. (2017). OSMnx: New methods for acquiring, constructing, analysing, and visualizing complex street networks. Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 65, 126–139.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2017.05.004
2) Işık University. (2026). COMP/SOFT 4902/4912 Graduation Design Project Syllabus. Işık
University.
3) Lecture Notes, Işık University (2024). Software Engineering Course Material (SOFT2101).
- Course notes provided by the instructor for understanding the RAD structure, system
modelling and diagrams.
4) Mapbox. (2026). Mapbox GL JS Documentation for Web Maps. Retrieved from:
https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/
5) Boeing, G. (2023). OSMnx: Python for Street Networks. Python Package Index (PyPI). Retrieved from:
https://pypi.org/project/osmnx/
6) PostGIS Project Steering Committee. (2024). PostGIS Spatial Database Documentation. Retrieved from:
https://postgis.net/docs/
Page 44 of 44
7) Uber Technologies. (2024). H3: Uber’s Hexagonal Hierarchical Spatial Index. Retrieved
from:
https://h3geo.org/
8) United Nations. (2025). The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2025. Retrieved from:
https://sdgs.un.org/goals